### Commands
```
go
dive
back
dive
pull
back
back
go
wave
back
thrnxxtzy
read
the_magic_of_wand
c
read
password
c
```

### Analysis
1. First we tried to read the panel mentioned on the first screen using the "read" command. But it was empty. So we used the "go" command to move ahead. There we reached a Lake. We used the "dive" command to dive into the lake but soon came out of it automatically. The “explore” command was also unsuccessful. We again took a dive into the lake and found a magic wand. However, the command “pull” made us die.
 
2. After that, using “back” to catch our breath out of the lake, we dived again to pull the wand. Then we went back to the empty panel and tried to use the wand on it but to no avail.

3. We further moved back till we reached the chamber of level 3. So we went into the cave with small and large holes and waved the wand to free the spirit. 

4. We then cleared Level 3 similar to what we did earlier.

5. Coming back to Level 4 chamber, we gave the command “read” and this time we got a message. It stated that the encryption algorithm used could be a 4-round DES, a 6-round DES, or a 10-round DES. 

6. We have described our analysis for 6 rounds of DES. The logic is the same and we had tried it by assuming that it was a 4-round DES but didn't get results.

7. Observations: we tried encrypting single letters but nothing showed up. So we tried combinations of 2 letters as input plaintext and got 16 letters encrypted message. A block of DES consists of 64 bits or 8 bytes. So a byte could consist of 2 letters. But 4 bits can cover only 16 letters through one-to-one mapping. So the encrypted message should consist of 16 letters.

8. After significant attempts we concluded that only the letters from ‘f’ to ‘u’ were used as cipher text alphabets. Thus we mapped them to 4 bit binary numbers as shown:

          'f': "0000",
          'g': "0001",
          'h': "0010",
          'i': "0011",
          'j': "0100",
          'k': "0101",
          'l': "0110",
          'm': "0111",
          'n': "1000",
          'o': "1001",
          'p': "1010",
          'q': "1011",
          'r': "1100",
          's': "1101",
          't': "1110",
          'u': "1111"
6. To Break a 6-round DES, we used a part of the 5-round characteristic which was mentioned in class. The characteristic we used is: (405c0000, 04000000, 1/4, 04000000, 00540000, 5/128, 00540000, 00000000, 1, 00000000, 00540000, 5/128, 00540000, 04000000).
The probability of this 4-round characteristic is (1/4)*(5/128)*(1)*(5/128) which is approximately  0.00038147. Since for r-round DES, we only require (r-2) round characteristics, We can determine the output of S-boxes of round 6 with probability p = 0.00038147.

7. As discussed in class, if we use L sets of Ki where Ki = { mi |αi ⊕ mi = γi, (γi, γi′ ) ∈ Xi } then the expected number of sets in which m != K6,i occurs is < 16/64L and expected no. of sets in which K6,i occurs = pL + (1-p)*L/4 = (3p + l)/4
Thus, the frequency difference of K6,i and other values is 3/4pL. Since p = 0.00038147, Taking L = 50,000 will give a considerable frequency gap between the correct and incorrect values of the key.

8. Now, we write code to help us in the decryption. The file input_generator.cpp generates 1,00,000 random inputs. We can get an input pair from each of these 1,00,000 values by taking the value as one part and (value^(input characteristic's first element)) as another. Next, we write a script run.sh to fetch the ciphertexts obtained by encrypting these plaintexts. Hence, we make use of the chosen plaintext attack which has been given to us for free. 

9. In the actual DES algorithm, a known permutation is applied at the very beginning and the very end of the DES algorithm to effectively disperse information. Since these permutations are known, we can remove their effect by multiplying with the respective inverse permutations. 


10. Using the output pairs, we can perform the attack as discussed in the class. Now, we have obtained R(6)L(6), where R(6)L(6) denotes the output of the 6th round of the DES algorithm. In the DES scheme, we have L(i) = R(i-1), hence we know R(5). This group of 32 bits will undergo expansion. Since the nature of Expansion is exactly known, we know the output of the Expansion box in 6th round. Next, this gets XORed with the Key of that round. Since we are using differential cryptanalysis, the effect of key-XORing cancels out and the input XOR remains unchanged. Hence, XOR(inputs to S-box in 6th round) = XOR(outputs of the Expansion box). With some probability, we also know L(5), hence we can calculate the output of the permutation box with some probability using (L(5)^R(6)).  Working backwards in the 6th round, we also know the Permutation used in the permutation box, hence it can also be reversed to get the XOR of outputs of the S-boxes. Hence, the conclusion is that we know the input XORs and with some probability, the output XORs of the S-boxes. 


11. Using the output of expansion boxes, input xors of S boxes, output xors of S-boxes, we can carry out the attack. Firstly, iterate over all S-boxes separately. We get the 6 input bits of this S-box’s XOR, 4 output bits of the output XOR and the 6 output bits of the Expansion-box going into the current S-box from this obtained data.

12. Now, we feed some inputs to this S-box which have input XOR = the value of the 6-input block to the S-box. Let’s call these values k and (k^input_XOR). Since the specification of the S-boxes is given to us, given these 2 inputs we can find the outputs of the S-box. Finally, we calculate the XOR of these obtained output values. If this calculated value of the output XOR equals to the one which we had obtained from the chosen-plaintext attack (considering only the bits corresponding to the current S-box), then a probable value of the 6-key bits corresponding to the S-box can be (k^a), where a is 6-block segment of the output of the expansion box. Hence, we increase the counter of (k^a) for the current S-box. As we take more and more inputs, the counter of the correct key-bits starts to show a considerable difference when compared to the rest: the frequency of exactly one set of 6-bits for 6 S-boxes is much more than the rest of the frequencies. As discussed in the class, this value taken in all S-boxes gives the key bits. Hence, we can get 6^6  = 36 bits of the key. Rest of the bits can be found by brute-forcing since 2^(56-36) = 2^20 keys which can be calculated. 
We store all the brute force generated keys in a file and implements 6-round DES to decrypt a message. In this, we try each and every key and check the decrypted message vs the actual plain text message. For implementing the 6-round DES, we referred the online blog : “http://desimplementation.blogspot.com/2015/09/data-encryption-standard-algorithm-data.html”

13. Hence, we can get the key. Now, we know the ciphertext corresponding to the password. Decrypting this ciphertext will give us the password.  

Codeflow:

1. input_generator.cpp generates two input files namely input1.txt and input2.txt, with both these files having corresponding entries xor equal to a fixed value (405c000004000000)(base 16)

2. run1.sh (run2.sh) takes input1.txt (input2.txt) and checks for the corresponding output generated by the ssh terminal and stores it in output1.txt (output2.txt)

3. output_xor.py then generates the xor_value of corresponding entries of output1.txt and output2.txt represented in binary form and then stores it in output_xor.txt , it also stores the binary form of output1.txt in output1_binary.txt

4. xor_decrypt.py then takes this output1_binary.txt and generates the actual_E6 i.e., expansion output in DES_6 and stores it in expansion1.txt . It also takes output_xor.txt and generates input xor to Sblock of DES_6 and input xor of Sblock of DES_6  as input_xor_sbox.txt and output_xor_sbox.txt

5. s_boxes_analysis tries inputs for all S-boxes and obtains the counters for all 6-key-bits for all 8 S-boxes. We can hence get some 6-bit groups for the key.