### Commands
```
go 
back 
read
```
### Analysis
The cipher text looked alphabet-wise encrypted. While encrypting such ciphers, spaces, commas, quotes, underscores, and full-stops aren't encrypted. We removed them from the cipher text. 

Further, we plotted the frequency distribution of the cipher text letters and tried to compare it with the standard distribution of the English language. The distribution didn't resemble shifted standard distribution (implying it isn't a shift cipher). Moreover, the frequencies were flatter. This indicates that the encryption is unlikely to be monoalphabetic.

Also, after counting the number of lines in horizontal dimensions on the first screen, we got 9292552221. This looks like some sort of key to make shifts in the letters (by wrapping around). 

We also notice that the sequence "cj" occurs 5 times in the ciphertext, which seems disproportionately high. Moreover, each instance of "cj" is separated from the other by a multiple of the key length (= 10). The same holds true for the sequence "cjn", which occurs thrice in the ciphertext. Another sequence "cjjwg" is also separated by a multiple of the key length, which may mean that a word has been encrypted twice as the same sequence by the encryption algorithm.  

This indicates that 2 instances of a letter in the plaintext may be mapped to 2 instances of some letter in the ciphertext if they are separated by a multiple of the key length. Hence, this indicated one of the most common polyalphabetic substitutions of such type: Vigenere Encryption.

Note: 
The code file A2.ipynb attached provides the generated outputs/graphs along with the functions to generate them.
The code file A2_key_extracter.ipynb describes the procedure we used before to extract the key from the cipher text (as we pressed 'read' before 'go' on the first screen).
Q4 Decryption Algorithm
15 Points
Grading comment:
Briefly describe the decryption algorithm used. Also mention the plaintext you deciphered. (Use less than 350 words)

Vigenere Cipher works as follows:

1. Encryption: 
         Shift each letter in the plain text by the key at that position. If you run out of key letters, wrap around the key again. After shifting, we map each letter in the plain text to the letter at the shifted position in the English alphabet. Mathematically,
                             shift(m_i) = ( ASCII(m_i) - ASCII('a') + key[i%len(key)] ) mod 26
                                Enc(m_i) = letter_with_ASCII_value( ASCII('a') + shift(m_i) )
2. Decryption:
          Once we know the key, we shift back by subtracting the key from the corresponding letters in the cipher text. We get the plain text letter back after mapping back the ASCII value to the letter it represents. Mathematically,
                           shift_back(c_i) = ( ASCII(c_i) - ASCII('a') - key[i%len(key)] ) mod 26
                               Dec(c_i) = letter_with_ASCII_value( ASCII('a') + shift_back(c_i) )

Doing this for the entire cipher text, we get the following plain text:

Be wary of the next chamber, there is very little joy there. Speak out the password "the_cave_man_be_pleased" to go through. May you have the strength for the next chamber. To find the exit, you first will need to utter magic words there.

Note:
The code to do this is included in A2.ipynb.
