### Commands
```
go
wave
dive
go
read
sknrxzpral
```

### Analysis
Note: English alphabets, small and capital, are encrypted identically. i.e., a cipher block in small letters will have identical encryption if the letters are all capitalized. 

Note: all other special characters (whitespace, punctuations, etc) are self-mapped.

1. After entering level 5, there was a passage so we used "go". On the next screen, there was a free fall so we just used go and ended up dead. So next time during the free fall, we tried different commands, and using "wave" paved the way. Now in the water, we couldn't find anything on the surface so we used "dive". On the next screen, there was a passage leading to somewhere too we used "go". There was a glass panel on the last screen, so we used "read" there to get the problem statement.

2. It was mentioned there that the block size is 8 bytes. We entered some plaintexts and analysed their ciphertexts. We noticed that, as in the previous assignment, the letters in the ciphertext ranged from 'f' to 'u', so the system had something to do with the hex system. This was reinforced by the fact that we kept getting "connection lost" on entering plaintexts which a letter outside the ('f'-'u') sequence. Also, we noticed that the smallest ciphertext size we got was 16 letters. By using these 2 observations, we conclude that each letter from 'f' to 'u' corresponds to 4 bits, hence 2 letters make up 1 byte in the text.  The blocksize, therefore, is 8 bytes or 16 letters.

3. However, if all 2-letter sequences were possible in the ciphertext, the irreducible polynomial used should be 8-degree. It is however given to be 7 degree. This means some combinations of letters are not allowed in the ciphertext. On further analysis, we see that the first letter in the ciphertext is always from 'f' to 'm' only. This makes it possible for the polynomial to be 7-degree, since now our byte-size is 128, and F_{128} is sufficent to represent all bytes possible. Hence, the bytespace is ("ff", "fg", "fh", ... "gf", "gg", ... "mu"). This gives 128 values.

4. On trying inputs like "ggg", "gggf", and "hhh","hhhf" , we noticed they gave the same ciphertext. The character "f" can therefore be used for padding. Hence, "f" can be mapped to 0. Now, as in the previous assignment, we lexicographically map letters to their values, i.e. ('f'->0), ('g'->1), ('h'->2)..('u'->15). Then, the value corresponding to any byte "xy" (where x, y are any letters from "f" to "u") is (16*val[x]+val[y]). To derive the bytes, we map individual letters as follows: 
{   'f': "0000",
          'g': "0001",
          'h': "0010",
          'i': "0011",
          'j': "0100",
          'k': "0101",
          'l': "0110",
          'm': "0111",
          'n': "1000",
          'o': "1001",
          'p': "1010",
          'q': "1011",
          'r': "1100",
          's': "1101",
          't': "1110",
          'u': "1111"}

The byte "xy" can then be written in the binary format by concatenating the binary representations of "x" and "y".

5. Let {B_k} denote a byte. On trying some more plaintexts, we noticed that 2 plaintexts {B_1}{B_2}...{B_i}{B'_(i+1)}..{B'_k} and {B_1}{B_2}...{B_i}{B"_(i+1)}..{B"_k} always have the first i bytes of their ciphertexts equal. On changing the (i)th byte of any plaintext, we notice a change only in the bytes of the output after (i)th byte. Hence, the ciphertext's (i)th byte was only determined by the first i bytes of the plaintext.  This is very important, since we can choose plaintexts exploiting this property. 

6. We entered various plaintexts having the first 7 bytes as "ff"(value of "ff" = 0) and varying the last byte. On doing so, our ciphertexts also had the first 7 bytes as "ff". Formally, if the first i bytes of the plaintext are "ff", we see atleast i "ff" bytes at the beginning of ciphertext. From the above point, we can also conclude that the matrix A is a lower-triangular matrix. If any entry above the main diagonal is non-zero, say Aij(j>i), then (j)th byte in the plaintext influences the (i)th byte of the ciphertext, which is a contradiction. 

7. Now, after this initial analysis, we carry out a chosen-plaintext attack. Since "ff" maps to 0, we generate inputs where only one byte is non-zero. We store the plaintexts into 8 rows, where all plaintexts in the (i)th row has only the (i)th byte non-zero (goes from "ff" to "mu"). Hence, we generate (128)*8 = 1024 plaintexts. These are in "inputs.txt".

8. Next, we run the script to get the corresponding ciphertexts. These are stored in "outputs.txt".

9. Now, we need to determine matrix A and vector E. When only one byte is nonzero in plaintext, we can determine the possible sets of (A-diagonal entries, E-vector entries)(as shown in the code). The (i)th row of inputs.txt is used for (A[i][i], E[i]). We iterate over all possible values of (A[i][i], E[i]), and check if for all plaintexts(128), the (i)th byte calculated is equal to the (i)th byte of the ciphertext. If so, we consider the (A[i][i], E[i]) pair as a candidate and store it. We don't need any other information except (A[i][i], E[i]) to calculate the (i) byte of the ciphertext since all other bytes in the plaintext are 0, so they contribute nothing. Doing this gives 3 possible combinations of A[i][i] and E[i] for all i from 1 to 8. 

10. Taking some more plaintexts, we determine the exact matrix diagonal entries and the vector  E. This is done by considering the (i)th and (i+1)th bytes together and analysing the (i+1)th byte of the ciphertext(done in the code). For this operation, we need 5 values: (E[i], E[i+1], A[i][i], A[i+1][i+1], A[i+1][i]). In the code, the transpose of A is determined since it was easier to work with. We know the candidate values for (A[i][i], E[i]) and (A[i+1][i+1], E[i+1]). We iterate on this along with A[i+1][i] (shown in the code). Hence, it can be carried out. Doing this, we determine the vector E, the diagonal and elements neighbouring the diagonal in A.

11. After finding the diagonal and neighbouring elements, we brute force the rest of the entries in A by comparing the corresponding bytes in the calculated ciphertext(incrementally) and the given ciphertext. Here also, we use the fact that only the first i bytes of the plaintext determine the (i)th byte in the ciphertext. This is also done in the code. Hence, the whole matrix A is determined.

So, the encryption has been broken since we have found A and E, which both make up the key. 

12. Finally, we have to decrypt the password. For this, we firstly have to break the encrypted password "gsmgfnjqlgihkoluifkmgoftjfiijgfn" into 16-letter blocks since blocksize is 16 letters. Now, for each half-password, we brute-force a possible input. This is done byte-by-byte by going from the first byte to the second byte. We can do this since our matrix is a lower triangular matrix, hence the ciphertext's (ith) byte is only decided by the first i bytes of the plaintext. We can go from the first to last byte of the plaintext, getting it in an incremental way. 

13. On doing so, we got "milqltmhmnmpmfmh" and "lglrifififififif" (shown in the code). However, entering this plaintext did not pass the level. Now, we remember that the blocksize is 128 bits, and there are many same letters in the plaintext. Hence, we tried ASCII. We go byte by byte from the first to the end, getting the values depicted by each byte(since 2-letter sequences are mapped lexicographically to 0-128). On getting these values, we look at the corresponding symbols in the ASCII code. On doing so, we got "sknrxzpral000000". Figuring out that zeros are used as padding, we entered "sknrxzpral", which passed the level.

Code flow: 
First run input.py to generate inputnew.txt. Then use scirpt.sh to generate the output cipher text corresponding to input plaintext by running the command "./script.sh inputnew.txt outputnew.txt". This will create outputnew.txt. Now run inputConvertor.py to generate inputs.txt and outputs.txt. Finally run the 641.ipynb to get the password.
