### Commands
```
go
read 
enter 
read
```

### Analysis
Cipher Text:
        Mewa wa mey twsam iepjoys gt mey ipbya. 
	Pa xgn iph ayy, meysy wa hgmewhr gt 
	whmysyam wh mey iepjoys. Agjy gt mey kpmys 
	iepjoysa vwkk oy jgsy whmysyamwhr meph 
	mewa ghy! Mey iguy nayu tgs mewa jyaapry 
	wa p awjfky anoamwmnmwgh iwfeys wh vewie 
	uwrwma epby oyyh aewtmyu ox 8 fkpiya. 
	Mey fpaavgsu wa "mxSrN03uwdd" vwmegnm mey 
	dngmya.

1. The encryption looked letter wise, hence we suspected that Substitution Cipher was used.
2. Although the sample is small, we ran frequency analysis to get a start. Frequency Analysis of the above cipher text gave:
           "y": 13.95%     "m": 10.85%  (as top two letters)
     We know that the plain text English words have:
           "e": 13%           "t": 9.1%        (as top two letters)
3. We also observe that the word "mey" appears 7 times in the cipher text. This clearly corresponds to "the". This hypothesis is also supported by the Frequency Analysis. So, we map (y->e), (m->t) and (e->h).
4. "p" is the only one alphabet letter in the cipher text. This must correspond to either "i" or "a". We assume it to be "a" for now. So, (p->a)
5. "meph" is now "tha_", which means, (h->n).
6. "wa" appears 4 times, and thrice with the word "mewa". Moreover, "w" appears with a frequency of 9.69% in the cipher text (which hints at "o" or "i" since "a" has already been mapped). We assume it to be "i" as it makes more sense along with other words. So, (w->i).
7. "Mewa" is now "Thi_", which implies (a->s) because "n" has already mapped already in 5.
8. "gt" appears thrice. Since, we have already mapped "a","e" and "i", "g" could be "o". Since, "n" has already been mapped, "t" should be "f". Hence, we get (g->o) and (t->f).
9. "oyyh" is now "_een", which means "o" should be "b", since "t" has already been mapped in 2 and "s","k" don't go with other words. So, (o->b). 

10 pairs are found. Using them, it is trivial to complete the rest of the mapping to make sense of the words, with their context.

After replacing the letters in the alphabet, we get:

Decryption:
This is the first chamber of the caves. As you can see, there is nothing of interest in the chamber. Some of the later chambers will be more interesting than this one! The code used for this message is a simple substitution cipher in which digits have been shifted by 8 places. 
The password is 'tyRgU03diqq' without the quotes.

It states that each digit in the message has been shifted by 8 places. 8 is after the shifting.

Assume that it was supposed to be shifted by x places. Hence,
2x mod 10 = 8
Let us take x=4 among the set of answers.

This means that we are supposed to shift each digit 4 places back (and mod 10 to wrap). Hence, 
"tyRgU03diqq"->"tyRgU69diqq"
This comes out as our password.
