### Commands
```
go 
enter 
pick 
c 
c 
climb 
give 
back 
back 
thrnxxtzy 
read
```
### Analysis

We first analyze the frequency of the alphabets in the ciphertext. We find that the distribution strongly resembles the distribution of the English Alphabet. Therefore, a Monoalphabetic Substitution Cipher could've been used. We try to decipher the ciphertext by comparing the frequencies of the alphabet and analyzing bigrams/trigrams but don't find anything meaningful. 
    
So we conclude that a variation of the Monoalphabetic Substitution Cipher was used. We suspect a Substitution-Permutation Cipher since the frequency distribution remains the same as that of the English alphabet. Normal Permutation Cipher was also ruled out since the frequencies of the alphabets remain exactly the same (there is no shift); however, a frequency shift was observed. We thus try to crack the cipher text assuming the Substitution-Permutation Cipher.

Next, we guessed that the phrase "nqg_vfusr_ec_wawy" looks like the password, i.e. the final command required to clear the level. Since the word in the ciphertext just before this phrase ("lhvqpawr") has the same number of letters as the word "password", we assume for now that it represents the word "password" .

Using this information, we can try to arrive at the permutation size used in the cipher. The ciphertext size is 284, so we firstly check the factors of 284 (1, 4, 71, 284) as the permutation sizes. For permutation size=4 (the only plausible size), the word "lhvqpawr" is split into the blocks ["___l", "hvqp", "awr_"]. But if "password" corresponds to "lhvqpawr", it is also split into the blocks ["___p", "assw", "ord_"] . Since the alphabets in a block stay in the block after applying the permutation operation, if the key size is 4, then "hvqp" must correspond to "assw" (before the substitution). However, this is not possible, since "hvqp" doesn't have any repeated letters that could have been derived from the block "assw". Hence, we conclude that a key size of 4 is not possible.

We then checked block sizes 5,6,7,8,9 and 10. We see that when block size is 5, "lhvqpawr" is split into the blocks ["llhvq","pawrn"]. Similarly, "password" is split as ["_pass","word_"]. This may be a good choice for the permutation size since the 2"s"s in the block "_pass" can correspond to the 2 "l"s in the the ciphertext block "llhvq". This is also seen in block size of 8, 9 and obviously 10 (as it was seen in 5). We try decoding the cipher with block size 5 

Next, we try the 12 possible permutations of size 5 that may map the 2 "s"s in the plaintext to the 2 "l"s in the ciphertext. Now, the 4th and 5th characters in the block ("s","s") have to go to the 1st and 2nd block in the ciphertext ("l","l"). Hence, possible  permutation key is of the form [_, _, _, 0, 1] or [_, _, _, 1, 0]. 

The mapping is from plain_text-> cipher_text i.e. for [_,_,_,1,0], plain_text at position 4 is mapped to cipher_text at position 0.

Permutation possibilities:
perm_keys=[[4,3,2,1,0],[4,2,3,1,0],[3,2,4,1,0],[3,4,2,1,0],[2,3,4,1,0],[2,4,3,1,0],[4,3,2,0,1],[4,2,3,0,1],[3,2,4,0,1],[3,4,2,0,1],[2,3,4,0,1],[2,4,3,0,1]].

Now, we employ frequency analysis to see which alphabet can correspond to "a" and "e" in the ciphertext. In the "llvhq" block, both "q" and "v" occur. "q" and "v" are also the two letters with highest frequencies in the ciphertext. Since "e" is the most frequent alphabet in the plaintext, and one of "q" and "v" corresponds to "a", we can say either of mapping("a"->"q", "e"->"v") or ("a"->"v", "e"->"a") is true (plaintext->ciphertext). On listing the 12 possibilities (shown in the code), we can see that only one permutation([3, 2, 4, 0, 1]) is convincing, since it may also lead to the word "the" before "password" in the ciphertext. 

Now, since the permutation key is known, after de-permuting the original cipher text, we are left with a subsitution cipher text. The step by step guessing of words and the changes it causes, is shown in the code. Primary guesses include guessing "the password". This is followed by:
"SPEAm"->"SPEAK"
"TO gO THROdgH"->"TO GO THROUGH"
"SPEtt"->"SPELL" and so on

Finally, the subsitution key is given by: (plain_text -> cipher_text):
{'a': 'q', 'b': 'j', 'c': 'e', 'd': 'p', 'e': 'v', 'f': 's', 'g': 'g', 'h': 'f', 'i': 'c', 'j': 'k', 'k': 'm', 'l': 't', 'm': 'u', 'n': 'y', 'o': 'w', 'p': 'h', 'q': 'i', 'r': 'n', 's': 'l', 't': 'a', 'u': 'd', 'v': 'b', 'w': 'r', 'y': 'x'}
